reason I thought this is so interesting
as everybody said once he got convicted
for first-degree murder and sentenced to
life without the possibility of parole
they also will do you think he has any
grounds for appeal do you think there's
any chance this will be reversed and
everyone said no because the judge was
so conservative she essentially gave the
defense everything they wanted
during the trial which was driving the
prosecutors crazy but once you get that
conviction it's great for everybody
because they say okay she gave the
defense essentially everything I wanted
none of her rulings are gonna be
overturned
however this little legal issue here
could end up being a really good grounds
for appeal for Aaron Hernandez
so in Massachusetts you can get
first-degree murder with which ends up
being life without the possibility for
all either if it's premeditated or if
it's extremely cruel and atrocious
so this jury didn't find the
premeditation they only found the
cruelty and that kind of raises an issue
and in fact one of the reporters when
they were asking the jurors afterwards
they're asking him questions one of them
said to the jurors how did you find
extreme cruelty and one of the jurors
started to say well it was six shots
that's extremely cruel and I remember
kind of all sudden she stopped and I was
like then somebody just elbow her or
something that was interesting and
here's the issue there's seven factors
they can look at to determine if it's
extremely cruel or not one of which is
how many blows are or shots were there
and here's their six and one defense
attorney said look you know the way
modern guns work now six shots isn't
that much because it doesn't take much
on a hair-trigger to fire six shots that
can happen quickly it doesn't take a lot
of you know effort to do so six shots
might not be extremely cruel but not
like stabbing someone thirty times right
you know exactly and to the point like a
better example of what the typical
extremely cruel case would be be Jodi
arias she stabs him multiple times then
she slits his throat then she gets a gun
and she shoots him so that's kind of a
prolonged extremely cool killing him
over and over again this was six quick
shots you know and let him go I'm the
other factor they can look at is is a
disproportionate it the way they killed
him you know did they have to do that
much to kill him and here it was six
shots and they say well the the medical
coroner said well this three of them
killed him and the other three were you
know kind of extra well the person who
was shooting him probably did
know that so you know you can't
necessarily attribute extreme cruelty to
the person shooting because we shouldn't
only torture kind of situation exactly
exactly it's like he whatever the reason
was behind or whatever wrong thing Haute
and Lloyd said to him that set him off
and apparently it doesn't seem to take
that much he was shocked fairly quickly
and left their every bed I mean rather
these things are good but they under
current law it says the number of blows
delivered is one of seven factors on
which jurors can base a finding extreme
atrocity or cruelty so you guys remember
that that you know other are as the
Court of Appeals they give a lot of
leeway to the jurors findings because
they didn't sit there and listen to all
the facts like the jurors didn't even
kind of take the totality of
circumstances so the chance of him
getting reversed and in Massachusetts is
a very small percentage of cases that
gets reversed but there is actually a
legitimate basis here I think for them
to argue so when people say he really
has no appellate grounds I think there
actually is one now whether it works or
not is a whole nother issue but the big
thing is if it works and they end up
wiping out the first-degree murder he
goes from being in prison for life
- now being it could be a second-degree
murder which would be fifteen to life
which means he could be out in 15 years
so that's a huge change if they went on
that issue